In this video I'll demonstrate how to configure storage IO control.
So here I am at the storage view with these four web client and right click data store 1 and under the
menu that comes up I'm going to choose configure storage IO control and I'm going to start by simply
enabling storage IO control.
And so what's going to happen once I enable storage IO control on this data store.
It's going to start monitoring the available storage bandwidth for this particular data store and it's
going to determine at what point congestion is actually occurring.
So one of the things we're going to configure a storage IO control is shares we're going to set up a
share structure basically a relative priority structure determining at which point congestion actually
occurs and some AVMA are going to be throttled back and some victims are going to be given more storage
bandwidth based on those share values.
Well there has to know when to start actually enforcing those shares.
So do we do it when we've hit 90 percent of peak throughput on this data store or do we specify a milliseconds
of latency that we want to specifically configure.
I'm going to go with 90 percent peak throughput and I'm going to hit.
OK.
So now we've not only enabled storage IO control in this data store but we've set a threshold saying
when we hit 90 percent of peak through this data store that's when the share structure of storage IO
control will be enforced.
And so let's go back to our home screen here and what I want to do now is take a look at storage policies.
So let's click on the V.M. storage policies button here and I'm going to go ahead and create a new VM
storage policy.
And I'm just going to name this policy storage I IO control normal.
And what I'm going to use this policy for is kind of all my normal VAMC that should have roughly a basically
a normal number of shares related to storage control.
And so now I'm going to go ahead and add some rules to this and I'm going to add a storage IO control
component saying that this particular storage policy will enforce a rule saying these VM should have
a normal IO sherriffs allocation for storage IO control.
And so we can see where that configuration is right here.
Now as you can see here it's building some limits and reservations and stuff and with this as well it's
not just simply shares.
If I wanted to create a custom storage IO control rule I could do that as well.
I could set the number of shares but I could completely avoid the concept of limits and reservations.
So you can do this whatever way you want.
I'm just going to keep it simple and go with what's built in here.
And so I'm going to create a storage control.
Normal IO shares allocation go with the one thousand shares with a 50 IOPS reservation and a 10000 IOPS
limit.
So now I'll just hit next tear.
I'm not going to apply any rule sets based on tags at this point I'm going to go ahead.
Next here here you can see the data stores that are actually compatible with this storage policy.
I'm going to go ahead and hit next and then I'll get ready to complete.
OK.
So now that I've created a storage policy related to storage IO control let's go ahead do hostes and
Klosters and I'm going to actually apply this storage policy to a virtual machine.
Here's my VM VM one I'm going to go to heaven right click this virtual machine and under VM policies
I can edit my VM storage policies and I can simply just go ahead and assign the I C normal VM storage
policy to the entire virtual machine if I want or I can assign that storage policy to one individual
virtual desk if I want.
So for example if you have a sequel server and you want to assign a really high number of storage IO
control shares to the sequel disk what the system disk maybe is normal you can do that.
So you have a lot of granularity available here.
And now my storage policy is actually associated with this particular virtual machine.
So during times of storage contention this VM will get a normal number of storage IO control shares.
I could have other Reems with a high number of shares and have other Reems with a low number of shares.
And this will determine relative priority during times of congestion.